
----
**Docker Compose [Recommended]**
---
---
Docker Compose is the recommended method to run Immich in production. Below are the steps to deploy Immich with Docker Compose.

---
Step 1 - Download the required files
---
Create a directory of your choice (e.g. ./immich-app) to hold the docker-compose.yml and .env files.

Move to the directory you created
```bash
mkdir ./immich-app
cd ./immich-app
```

Download docker-compose.yml and example.env by running the following commands:

Get docker-compose.yml file
```bash
wget -O docker-compose.yml https://github.com/immich-app/immich/releases/latest/download/docker-compose.yml
```

Get .env file
```bash
wget -O .env https://github.com/immich-app/immich/releases/latest/download/example.env
```

You can alternatively download these two files from your browser and move them to the directory that you created, in which case ensure that you rename example.env to .env.


---
Step 2 - Populate the .env file with custom values
---
Default environmental variable content
```bash
# You can find documentation for all the supported env variables at https://immich.app/docs/install/environment-variables

# The location where your uploaded files are stored
UPLOAD_LOCATION=/mnt/smb/diaz-personal/immich_data
# The location where your database files are stored
DB_DATA_LOCATION=./postgres

# To set a timezone, uncomment the next line and change Etc/UTC to a TZ identifier from this list: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones#List
# TZ=Asia/Jakarta

# The Immich version to use. You can pin this to a specific version like "v1.71.0"
IMMICH_VERSION=release

# Connection secret for postgres. You should change it to a random password
# Please use only the characters `A-Za-z0-9`, without special characters or spaces
DB_PASSWORD=postgres

# The values below this line do not need to be changed
###################################################################################
DB_USERNAME=postgres
DB_DATABASE_NAME=immich
```

- Populate `UPLOAD_LOCATION` with your preferred location for storing backup assets. It should be a new directory on the server with enough free space.
- Consider changing `DB_PASSWORD` to a custom value. Postgres is not publically exposed, so this password is only used for local authentication. To avoid issues with Docker parsing this value, it is best to use only the characters `A-Za-z0-9`. `pwgen` is a handy utility for this.
- Set your timezone by uncommenting the `TZ=` line.
- Populate custom database information if necessary.


---
Step 3 - Populate the .env file with custom values
---

From the directory you created in Step 1 (which should now contain your customized `docker-compose.yml` and `.env` files), run the following command to start Immich as a background service:

Start the containers
```
docker compose up -d
```


---
Upgrading
---

If IMMICH_VERSION is set, it will need to be updated to the latest or desired version.

When a new version of Immich is released, the application can be upgraded and restarted with the following commands, run in the directory with the docker-compose.yml file:

Upgrade and restart Immich
```
docker compose pull && docker compose up -d
```

To clean up disk space, the old version's obsolete container images can be deleted with the following command:

```
docker image prune
```